Here's a link to the deployed project: https://users-database-salaar-shafi.netlify.app/


After making the react app I formatted the index.html sent in the stratex file manually and pasted it in a main app.js file which was being imoprted into index.js which was inturn linked to the public html file for the web page using ReactDom. 

Then in order to break the project down to manageable and sole functionalities the users, seniorUsers and wfm files were created which housed the looping functionalities to get the data from the main data file, filter and subsequently use the relevant data objects for the specific grouping and display them visually on the screen in these groups. JSX components were used to fit the data from the previously mentioned data objects and integrate it into the main component in the app.js file.   

The delete button in every group simply uses the filter functionality to loop every data object and return only those data objects that do not match every property of the object we want to delete which is sent in for comparison by the event handler function defined in the onClick event present in the respective group and row. After filtering out the remaining data objects the data state is set with these filtered objects which is imported in the grouped files for integration into the component, save ofcourse the filtered data objects. 

In order to add new data in the addData file three states are set addFirstName, addSecondName and addRole which are set by the event handler defined in the onChange event in each respective type of input or select box. Finally the handleSave function defined in the onChange event of the save changes button first validates the three states and then sets the data state with the inclusion of a new object incorporating the above mentioned states in the preset data structure.

The search functionality too makes use of states namely the showSearch and searchResult states. The onKeyDown event is used in the main search input which triggers the handleKeyDown function and this function first checks whether the pressed key was the enter key. If so it first removes all spaces in the input value using a combination of split and join js functions. Then it filters every data object in the data state by checking against the input value though only after converting it to lower case using the toLowerCase function. Every item that is checked is first combined in to one string from being two properties by using template literals then like before is converted to lower case and now both these values are compared. If same, the handleKeyDown function sets the showSearch state to true and the searchResult state to the values that match. When the showSearch state is true a conditional operator allows a part of the jsx component to render that has the searchResult state set into it and hence displaying the matching value. If no values match with your input value a not found message is delivered.

You must use the full name of the person you want to search in order to get a match.

